good good morning all I would like to
just take the moment if I may at the
outset of this before going into the
report to thank a number of people who
have made an effort over four or five
years to try to understand BCCI first of
all I want to thank Senator Brown this
is a nonpartisan non-political report at
least from our view both of us a
Democrat and a Republican there would be
no report if it were not for Senator
Browns and his staffs commitment to
working in a joint open effort from the
moment that he arrived in the Senate and
became a partner of mine in this he and
his staff have spent countless hours
helping to understand BCCI
I personally think that he has shown
courage and commitment to follow through
on this as both of us would attest
they've often been pressures and
considerations we've tried to be
responsible we've tried to be fair but
he's been a terrific partner and this
report would not be here today without
him secondly there are a number of staff
people you know government is quick to
be criticized and we deserve a lot of it
that's for certain
but I will tell you that I have never
seen a number of staff people work as
many incredible hours in the best sense
of public service as they have here and
I want to particularly thank Carter
Pilcher of Senator Brown staff Bennet
ray Lee bill Brack all of whom put a lot
hours into this and helped make this
happen
I want to thank Jonathan Winer David
McCain of my staff who have worked for a
long period of time on this and I want
to thank dick McCall who used to be with
me on this and finally Jack Blum who had
the courage to continue this and press
it even
Congress seemed to resist it and who
really helped to get it to the person
who is one of the great heroes of this
effort and that's Bob Morgenthau in New
York now that said we are releasing
today the culmination of their work our
work and after four years we are
together senator Brown and I issuing to
the Foreign Relations Committee of the
United States Senate a report which
concludes and sets out I think a path of
understanding BCCI as well as a path for
future investigation we do not claim as
we stand before you today that
everything that is to be known is known
today and we do not claim that there are
not areas that still need to be
investigated there are we feel however
that together we have made clear to
people what those areas are and what the
legitimacy of the inquiry into those
areas is now this report tells a graphic
story about international crime that has
broken all the rules and in the process
brought a lot of people to a downfall
innocent people people who were both
wittingly and unwittingly drawn into the
vortex of BCCI it is a report that
issues a clear call for governments to
join together more effectively to deal
with this question of international
financial crime it is inexcusable that
there remain openly operating havens for
dirty money
that contribute to the destabilization
of the entire financial network and that
literally aid in the crime that is a
scourge in our streets and in our
communities and more than anything we
would like this report to be looked at
in the larger not in the narrower sense
it is a report that condemns certain
turn
financial practices in the international
marketplace it is imperative for law
enforcement civility to work better that
governments particularly in the g10
begin to consider similar systems and
joint efforts that will help create
accountability in the extraordinary flow
of large sums of money in a totally
unaccountable fashion while these people
are not the people on the street selling
the drugs they are not the people
hitting people over the head and their
actions have every much that consequence
and it has to be stopped
BCCI constituted international global
crime of a level that boggles the mind
frauds compounded on frauds including
some of the most prominent political
figures in the Middle East like Kamala
Daum and gate Varun BCCI systematically
bribe political figures around the world
and some of them included heads of
states what's clear is that BCCI
strategy was to find a way into the
corridors of political power and to find
the most important and prominent people
in every country in which they did
business I don't know of a country in
which they did business that they did
not do that institutional barriers to
the flow of important information
concerning BCCI's criminal activities
hampered our government's investigation
of BCCI when the CIA found out a long
time ago that BCCI secretly owned a u.s.
bank it didn't tell the Federal Reserve
or the Justice Department it told to
other agencies the Treasury and the
office of the controller of the currency
who did nothing without information
regulators in both the United States and
the United Kingdom misunderstood the
nature of the threat posed by BCCI and
without realizing it allowed BCCI to
commit crimes in both countries for
years without detection regulatory
oversight was inadequate in both
countries until 1991 only six months
before the bank was closed down for good
controls on BCC I failed everywhere bcc
i--'s accountants knew for years that
bcc i--'s record-keeping was poor and
that there was bad practice upon bad
practice at the bank's various offices
finally things got so bad at the same
time as district attorney Morgenthau was
about to indict that they let the Bank
of England know and then the Bank of
England delayed unconscionably in the
period of time before the bank was in
fact closed the millions of depositors
were hurt in that process I might add
that in a report that is almost that is
800 pages long senator brown and I
disagree on very little where we had a
few disagreements and there were a few
we have his views and my views but I
think out of all of those pages there
are about six pages that represent that
kind of disagreement there is more to
say obviously and we're going to deal
with a lot of it in questions but I'm
really delighted to have been joined in
this effort by the senator from Colorado
and I turn it over there John thank you
we're both anxious to get to your
questions I wanted simply to cover a
couple aspects though that I think are
critically important first of all to
give you some additional idea the scope
of this we're dealing with 79 countries
in what I believe is perhaps the
broadest spanning criminal conspiracy
the world seen certainly from a private
banking group I believe it is critically
important as an outcome of our
investigation that additional
legislation come forward Senator Kerry
has already offered significant
proposals of his own before I joined the
investigation specifically relating to
money laundering we have jointly
co-sponsored three separate pieces of
legislation that in one form or another
will be enacted and I think you will see
additional legislation specifically
focused on banking havens designed to
cater to criminal activity there is no
reason in the world
that our banking authorities ought to
permit banking havens to operate as a
way to undercut regulatory safeguards
throughout the world so whether it's
Grand Cayman or others that are involved
in what I believe is is some involvement
in the criminal conspiracy I believe the
process will not be finished until those
banking havens are dealt with I think
it's important to note the scope of what
happened around the world because the
case is the same in many many locations
in Nigeria BCCI's activities were
discovered by officials who had not been
compromised
but the investigators were were stopped
by top with Nigerian officials both of
religious and governmental origin in
Pakistan BCCI used payoffs to
politicians as a mechanism for securing
businesses in stopping the breed of life
their illegal practices in the United
Kingdom the BCCI penetrated deeply they
had a number of branches and it wasn't
until years after American law
enforcement authorities began to spot
the activities of BCCI
that they began to add the record around
the world is replete with areas where
they were simply not spotted their
schemes were not detected I think there
is some point of pride in the fact that
the American authorities were the first
to bring them to justice
I wanted cover just briefly though some
of the people I believe are the real
heroes in this operation and there are
real heroes in this first one who is
with us a prosecutor who led the Tampa
prosecution since 1986 he's noted for an
incredible Drive and a tough demeanor
and he was chiefly responsible for the
prosecution of the BCCI officers is it
described by associates he's described
as all he likes to do is smoke
cigarettes and put bad guys in jail mark
Joukowsky are you here will you
you stand up mark will you wave to
everybody mark does not have a cigarette
with him and I don't know if he plans to
put anyone here in jail
I can tell you this is an individual who
has made an incredible contribution to
law enforcement in this country through
incredibly long long hours of dedicated
service and made a real difference there
are other heroes I think Greg Kehoe is
here as well
it was his system in the prosecution
ever it's great thank you for your
efforts
Bob measure the undercover customs agent
who first developed the idea of
operation C chase back in 1986 he
masterminded the plan and it was the
chief undercover agent and he put his
life on the line for this country there
are others who have done the same thing
but I want to mention several others in
in handouts that we will make available
to you if any of you are interested but
there's an additional hero in my book
and that's John Kerry you will notice as
you go through the report it is filled
with names of prominent public officials
there was not a single committee of this
Congress that was willing to conduct a
thorough complete investigation of this
problem it was partly because so many
prominent officials were deeply involved
in this in putting together this report
not only embarrasses them that exposes
many to criminal prosecution that is not
easy to do particularly when some of
them are members of your own party no
one stepped forward to do it except John
Kerry and he's carried for this fight no
matter how tough it was how difficult it
was or how embarrassing it was in my
book that makes a real hero along with
the other heroes had helped bring this
bring this to light the point is not
that bad things don't happen they do the
point is that we in a democracy take the
steps to bring them to light and to
solve the problems one of my deepest
disappointments is the activities of the
Central Intelligence Agency they had a
report which could have put a stop to
BCCI early on years before it came to an
end and I believe if they had acted
properly could have saved the depositors
around the world literally tens of
millions or perhaps even hundreds of
millions of dollars
the deepest disappointment is not just
that the CIA failed to deliver that
intelligence information to the proper
authorities who could act on it but even
to this day are unable to clearly
identify who is responsible perhaps I
should say either unable or unwilling to
identify clearly who is responsible that
kind of activity is not acceptable and
it's one of the fundamental changes that
I believe must take place John if you're
ready we mike awaited with questions let
me say as we open up I could not concur
more with Hank Browns comments regarding
those who prosecuted this case and made
the effort at the grassroots level there
was a tremendous effort and while I have
pointed out that I thought there was
some higher level decisions that might
have been different that in no way
impugns the commitment or the efforts of
those who really engaged on a day to day
basis with us and brought this
prosecution of fruit and they indeed
deserve enormous credit we're open to
questions yes sir you said in the past
that you regarded as a conflict of
interest
James Lake representing Abu Dhabi and
continuing to be Bush's deputy campaign
manager do you still feel that my record
is very clear on that statement and I
stand by the statement what disturbs us
obviously is that in the last week or so
literally just as this report was about
to come out Abu Dhabi made available
here in Washington certain documents for
perusal by our law enforcement
authorities our authorities are allowed
to go in and look at them they cannot
take notes and they cannot take copies
there is a very selected group of
documents that have been made available
the fact is that the body of evidence
that would shed light on this remains in
Abu Dhabi and our government at the
highest level needs to make it clear to
the government of Abu Dhabi that it is
important to get to the bottom of it
that has not happened now I don't know
why it hasn't happened but it just plain
hasn't
happened so there is in my mind that
continuing appearance of a problem I'm
not trying to politicize this and just
it's it's there it's a problem now I
would also say that the Bank of England
by hanging on the way it did for the
period of time that it did and by
permitting the fraud in a sense to
continue for the period of time that it
did acquiesced in the movement of
millions of documents from London to Abu
Dhabi had they moved immediately as they
should have based on the type of fraud
that was in evidence to them at that
time those documents would now be
available to appropriate authorities we
would hope including the United States I
I just add on that it is my personal
feeling that Abu Dhabi has not fully
cooperated
they have cooperated to a limited extent
but not to a full extent and as you
review the report I believe you'll come
to the same conclusion I have which is
that Abu Dhabi's role in this is far
more significant than was originally put
forth and what recommendations you would
make to the British I'm not a British
legislator and I'm not going to be so
arrogant as to suggest to them what they
do with our facts some will probably
suggest there's an arrogance and our
having pointed out the facts we have I
regret that but we have tried to be
straightforward in suggesting you know
in just laying out what we found what
British authorities and and their
parliamentary system decides to do with
it is up to them and I'd be happy to
consult as I know senator Brown would be
happy to consult but I think that their
system needs to decide how it wants to
respond to the facts that we have laid
forward whether there's positive
evidence or not you've used the words
acquiesce negligence willful or on
willful or
to what degree do you think do you think
there was affirmative action by the
executive branch to hide the truth or to
create the set of the events which led
to this affair by our executive branch
we have no overt evidence or direct
evidence that somebody made a malicious
decision in this - to not proceed we
have laid out a series of decisions that
were made some of which we have
disagreed with it is clear that there
was poor communication it is clear there
were inadequate resources it is clear
that on a couple of occasions people
interceded where perhaps they shouldn't
have but there's no showing to my mind
that there was an overall effort to
somehow shut it down I just don't think
the evidence shows that I don't want to
deal with gut feelings here this is a
factual report we've tried to lay out
the facts I think it would be a mistake
to reduce it to gut feeling well let me
just add on that if I could John you may
have a different view of this but but at
least it was my feeling as you look at
this that if there is a failing in that
area it is a failing to devote enough
resources quickly enough to pursue
quickly enough in that area and one of
the heroes that we did not go in depth
to is the prosecutor from New York Bob
Morgenthau is clearly done an
outstanding job in this area and
exemplifies the kind of rapid follow-up
that I think we had wish we'd seen more
up on the federal level
I wanted to say that I think that I
expressed in the course of the hearings
and in the course of these proceedings a
disagreement with how this case should
have been viewed I think early on there
was sufficient evidence to view the
broad scope of criminality and in fact
that was the argument that Jack Blum
made when he first went at this and when
he went to Bob Morgenthau in point of
fact Bob Morgenthau saw the broad scope
and indicted on the broader scope so
people you know we're not here to try to
go Ratatat to a lot of folks who made
different judgments we're simply trying
to show what happened over the course of
time and it's clear that Bob Morgenthau
judgment has been has been found to be
the correct one Senator Kerry can you
talk about Capcom for a second you say
that it's evident the evidence is clear
that there was money laundering and yet
the commodity regulators say they never
did find money laundering
well we despair that Capcom we believe
represents one of the parts of the
iceberg that is still underwater
it ought to be more properly
investigated we also believe that the
regulatory process in Chicago of the
commodities future exchange and board
afraid is not sufficient that it doesn't
have a way of dealing with this and
since money laundering is not per se
outlawed as it ought to be you have a
problem now I commend you I can't go
through all of it here but I think that
you will understand what I'm talking
about
in terms of scope of this investigation
and you go to page 786 of volume 2
matters for further investigation if any
of you ever get there this way I'm sort
of getting you there faster there are 20
different areas which we believe merit
investigation ranging from the financing
of commodities and other business
dealings of international financial you
know people involved to BCCI's
activities with the Central Bank of
Syria and the foreign trade mission the
Soviet Union involvement in terrorism
involvement in bank
nuclear plan in Pakistan the
manipulation of the commodities and
securities markets in both Europe and
Canada major issues folks these leap out
at you and the commodities and Capcom is
one of those areas it's ask you though
with romrell and Magnus the US investors
in Capcom you do call Clifford and
Altman couple even if they reduced what
about romrell of magnets are they
culpable even if they were duped we
didn't make that judgment can I'd like
to ask a little bit more about the
question of the illegal acquisition of
first American in particular you said in
your introductory remarks when you say
very briefly in the report that the CIA
did notify the Treasury that this
illegal acquisition has taken place but
as far as I can see you don't go into
any more detail than that and I was
wondering if you could tell us what you
know about who at new a Treasury how
high it went if you have any sense about
why they fail to pursue it and what you
believe the significance of Treasury's
action was let me comment briefly on
that and perhaps Shawn will have an
additional comment my concern about the
failure of communication from the CIA
was that they contacted the wrong people
what you had was the CIA gets very
significant information the analogy is
really to a fire started instead of
calling the fire department they call
the Zoning Commission did they call
someone with the information yes but
they call the wrong people they did not
call the people who had responsibility
for regulating the dealing with BCCI so
the failure there I think is simply to
the failure to recognize the
significance and the information to get
it to the right people or even to
follow-up there is an indication they
did forward it to Treasury but there
again the people the Treasury did not
directly share with the important
airport or follow-up detention say it
also went to the highest up level of
treasure
it was share at the highest level and
you sank the James bacon you know it was
not Jim bacon at the time I was done
reading
until he knew that this is giving it
there is evidence that went to him he is
on the memo he is the addressee he has
no memory of it boy you single out CIA
for criticism in your investigation here
in the US what individuals or agencies
bear responsibility for not being on top
of this I think the report speaks for
itself you we have already single out
CIA who would you add to that list well
we feel that the regulator's the Fed
should have moved sooner we felt we felt
that the relationship between the office
of the control of the currency and the
other regulatory financial institutions
was not adequate in terms of
communication we've made differing
judgments on nuance but fundamentally
have felt that justice should have had
the resources allocated and should have
moved harder and I think but I think
that's it so I think that's what's been
laid out what about individuals do want
to name some people who know I think the
report speaks for itself on that you
know this is an institutional failure
more than it is individuals and the
institutions were somehow not geared to
respond or to be able to respond there
are some individuals here and there who
made other judgments we disagree with
our judgments we think or no judgment
but I think there was a failure in the
process as much as anything and I think
that's what we're trying to underscore
let me here let me just add a thought on
that I think it's important to put this
in perspective the United States unlike
many of the foreign countries we talked
about Nigeria and others was not the
subject of graft or corruption at least
we have no evidence of that the United
States was the first to move in this
area and prosecuted far ahead of other
nations so in in a significant measure
we have a lot to be proud of the United
States was much more difficult to
penetrate the United States did assisted
depositors that other nations in terms
of perspective we come out far better
than than the other nations that were
subject to this it is appropriate though
and I think the report does it to focus
on our shortcomings even though there's
a lot I think to take pride in it's
appropriate to focus on the shortcomings
and I think the report did tries to do
that in a balanced manner Harry you're
mentioning the Bank of England
section here that the bank withheld
information it had on fraud for 15
months what are you saying there why why
did the bank do that in your view and
are you is it fair to suggest here from
what you're saying that we're talking
about the Bank of England being directly
or indirectly a party to the cover-up of
the fraud what is it exactly you're
saying about the bank I am saying very
directly that the Bank of England had
sufficient information in front of it to
close BCCI
15 months earlier than it did and I am
suggesting very directly that it was the
process of Bob Morgenthau and the
imminent indictments that moved them to
action and not the gravity of the case
itself I don't know how long it might
have clear to us what the sequence of
events was at that point in time I don't
want to speculate and I can't answer the
question second question you do state
however explicitly that Abu Dhabi was
involved in covering up through hiding
witnesses and still hiding documents you
stated explicitly that mr. Alma's ruie
was personally involved in some of the
financial benefits from BCCI he is the
current head of the BCCI investigation
in Abu Dhabi and you also say that Abu
Dhabi was a nominee for which other
people have been indicted are you
suggesting that there's a reasonable
suggestion here that Abu Dhabi might be
indicted should be indicted to be
investigated I think it is being
investigated and I think you should stay
tuned
you didn't being investigated about
possible Kanagawa Morgenthau is
investigating all aspects of this case
and I am convinced that he will continue
and if there is evidence there that
merits some kind of action I'm convinced
he will take action
he is currently looking at that very
issue senator Bryant Beaute good you
said a few moments ago that there was no
graft or corruption in this country as
you know for weeks maybe months rumors
of a payoff list floated
rumors of a payoff list floated around
Washington and elsewhere must be a tough
question if understanding it difficulty
improving a negative are you confident
that that's all they were rumors that or
is it conceivable that there's just
something you didn't find
I had difficulty enough getting to our
almost 800 pages I'm not sure I'm ready
to go beyond that at this point what
we've said is we don't have evidence of
the graft or corruption or bribes at
this point does that guarantee that
there weren't any no it does not and
obviously as Ben has been referred to
either earlier there are significant
areas that we think remain
uninvestigated need following well I
think there is an Independent Counsel
right now his name's Bob Morgenthau
seems to be doing a hell of a job if he
needs more resources and more staff my
understanding is that the relationship
between he and attorney general bar now
is good it's my understanding that the
Justice Department is working closely
with them I think there's been good
cooperation there in recent months and I
think we have every reason to believe
that this investigation can go forward I
can assure you that if Bob thought he
wasn't capable of doing it he'd be the
first person to say so you said that
there was no graft or corruption in this
country that we should be proud of that
but you also listen what we have said
there was no answer you also list of a
pattern
buying of influence buying the services
of well-connected people that makes it
look as if this Bank was treated us the
way they treated all those third world
countries and got away with it that
doesn't seem to be something we should
be proud of I think the report is very
clear about act I think when senator
Brown and I sort of listened carefully
when he said that what he was talking
about is there was the lack of evidence
of payoffs to high political figures to
within businesses and the lack of
evidence of the kind of pattern of
corruption that we found in other
countries a direct link between money
given or action taken and subsequent
action taken now that is absent here but
we have very clearly laid out in this
report actions that were taken in this
country that were illegal and that and
for which people are currently obviously
either under indictment or under
investigation so there is clearly a
corruption in this country but it is of
a different kind than the kind that I
think Brenda he can speak for himself
but that's the way I understood it what
did you need senator Hann China's report
senator hatch is first of all there's
been a great deal of mention of senator
hatch in recent days publicly this
committee has no jurisdiction whatsoever
over the investigation of another
senator we have included in there the
memorandum of the staffer and the
staffer himself as mentioned senator
hatch himself has sent that issue to the
Ethics Committee and so it's really
within the hands of the ethics committee
and not us and therefore we thought it
was inappropriate to include people who
are really not within the purview of the
investigation
right into the Senate Ethics Committee
about it writing I don't know but
they've contacted us and asked us for
some information Price Waterhouse World
and involved in this how far and how
high within Price Waterhouse do you
think there's evidence of corruption and
particularly particularly in relation to
the question of provision of sexual
favors to certain Price Waterhouse staff
I said you do it before he got there
being the only CPA in the Senate has
always seemed to be an honor up until
now I don't know whether I mean clearly
that that Price Waterhouse report was
critical he had lain open much of the
information that it remained a mystery
so that the Price Waterhouse report and
the availability of it is a key break in
opening this case up in terms of
specific charges against them I'm I'm
not aware of them perhaps they're there
there's a swirl of allegation about
sexual favors being given in one form or
another throughout a lot of BCCI's
activities I know some of the some of
the dailies in London will not like us
for having not included all of them but
we didn't really think this ought to be
a report about that kind of allegation
we did include some of it where we
thought it was relevant but I don't
think it needs further comment
corruption or bribery or blackmail or
nefarious dealings had prevented Price
Waterhouse from coming clean on this
sooner or was it just mismanagement or
mal management by Price Waterhouse that
it didn't I really think the report
speaks very clearly to that and since it
is complicated and there are sequence of
events I think you need to pick from the
report very carefully we do make it very
clear that there was in our mind a very
direct conflict of interest between
lending from BCCI to Price Waterhouse
accountants who were directly involved
in the accounting process now that just
leaps out at you as a conflict and
raises very serious questions of
practice let me let me add just a note
on that if those of you are interested
in that aspect of it and choose to write
on it or delve into it please keep in
mind one significant aspect to this a
Pricewaterhouse biz monolith the
operation in England is a different
operation in very significant aspects
not totally but significant aspects than
it is in other locations specifically
the United States different partners
different partnership arrangements
different responsibilities different
personnel it is a dramatically different
operation and I think that's an
important different factor to keep in
mind if it if it's dealt with the
institution in supervisory institution
had conducted itself in the same way in
this case as the Bank of England
conducted itself would you as senators
be pressing for heads to roll at the
very top of that institution well I
think you have a pretty good
understanding of American politics I I
don't want to deal with a hypothetical I
I'm not trying to ducky I just that's
not what happened and therefore there's
no reason to start calling for
hypothetical heads that might become
real in the report in the rumor that the
British government officials either a
Treasury or at the Bank of England
requested a delay in the publication of
the report so the government knows
there's gonna be no country no truth
whatsoever the delay in the publication
of this report about a week and a half
or so was really due to the PL wmia
hearings that Senator Brown and I are
both involved in and we just got behind
and as you can imagine and trying to
edit this and deal with this
intelligently it was more time-consuming
than we thought you talked about the
BCCI as a banking Inspira see that
abetted other forms of international
criminal conspiracy and you've assailed
the CIA which may in fact have been a b
CI CI customer but is there anything
your recommendations and in the outcome
of all of
that impacts on the ordinary American
bank deposit or
ways that your recommendations might
make him or her more secure prior to my
involvement but still unresolved is a
final method of dealing with these
banking havens and that problem still
should be of concern now Americans have
a separate system that is has worked
reasonably well under these
circumstances but the international
problem and the potential for an
international conspiracy using the
banking system is still there
mighty let me add also a couple of
things you know the average depositor in
the United States may sit there and say
well you know how does this affect me
and how did I get whacked by it the
encino bank in California cost the
taxpayer some money now as Senator Brown
said well they didn't penetrate as
rapidly here as they did elsewhere and
that's credit of our system they were
doing it and had they succeeded in going
further obviously this could have
exposed a great deal more money and
could have been much more convoluted
because if they collapsed with greater
liabilities etc you would have had more
American institutions subjected the
lawsuits and the potential of loss
within that Network but more importantly
frankly what BCCI means the average
depositor I think in this country is
that if there is an international system
and and all of us are playing by one set
of rules but there's another set of
rules out there that is enticing our own
businesses and banks to compete by the
different set of rules then we are
really creating a network that
undermines the stability of our own
system and the accountability of it that
affects every taxpayer not just every
depositor and ultimately if you have
places where money can go that is dirty
money and it can go easily you are
aiding and abetting every criminal
enterprise er is because
these are the people who profit from it
and pay the least for their endeavors
it's the hardest to get at ask any
prosecutor and so if you can move
billions of dollars in in large sums in
seconds electronically without ever
knowing where it came from and move it
from five different locations very
rapidly you can cloud any criminal trail
extremely easily the banking community
at Basel decided that they would live by
the standard of know your customer
that's supposed to be the key to banking
the fact is that electronic transfers
and wire transfers without
accountability define the notion of
knowing your customer and they are
totally contrary to any capacity for
accountability we are all at risk when
that is true
moreover our companies in this country
and our banks are living by one standard
and trying to compete in an
international marketplace where people
are able to move this money more freely
without restraint without accountability
without the same penalties and without
the same restraints that is a huge
competitive disadvantage so I think
that's been answered the report speaks
for itself but no we didn't view our
responsibility is making recommendations
for the British we tried it a couple
hundred years ago it didn't work very
well I really commend you if I can to
not just the series of legislative
recommendations we made which we think
summarize this but but to the findings
themselves as we've laid them out
because I think it that's the only way
that it makes clear what we're talking
about in terms of this network the
administration can do to crack this case
is it pressuring Abu Dhabi and if so how
would you suggest they do it
the the the real there are two places
where the secret to the secrets to this
case lie a one is in Abu Dhabi and the
other is with mr. Abady
in Pakistan the most fruitful would be
Abu Dhabi where you have key high
players under so-called house arrest and
where you have millions of documents
well the administration has all kinds of
tools at its disposal in terms of
relationships within the region
pressures that can bring to bear I mean
everybody knows the various pressures we
have diplomatically in the marketplace
in in relationships in arms dealings and
all kinds of things and I think we need
to make clear our determination to
pursue this there's one other thing
I hope the administration will do
impress it's a joint responsibility with
Congress but it does fall heavily on the
administration that is we have to move
quickly I think to terminate the ability
of banking havens to operate and if that
means cutting off wire transfers between
those entities if it means restricting
access to institutions in those
countries this nation has to move I
believe quickly to cut off access in
commerce with nations that would use a
banking system for criminal conspiracies
I'm advised by staff I goofed on one
thing and I just want to correct it so
there's no record incorrect their Abu
Dhabi has allowed them to take notes it
has not allowed them to make copies so I
just want to correct that I'd said they
couldn't make notes they can make this
right you have no document to put into
court you also have limited documents
because they've been selectively
provided you don't know what the vast
body of the documents might be that's it
thank you thank you all very much
the Senate Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on narcotics terrorism and
international operations has been
investigating the bank of credit and
commerce international since 1988 over
the last year their investigation has
focused on allegations of fraud and
money laundering
back in July former defense secretary
Clark Clifford and his law partner
Robert Altman were indicted in federal
and in state courts on charges of bank
fraud and accepting bribes the charges
stem from an alleged conspiracy to allow
BCCI to gain secret control of the
Washington dc-based first american bank
which the two men directed for more
information on this briefing write to
the Foreign Relations Subcommittee
the address is 446 Dirksen Senate office
building in Washington DC the zip code
is two zero five one zero
meet the people behind the titles on
booknotes this week Derrick Bell author
of faces at the bottom of the well is
our guest mr. Bell a civil rights
activist and author examines the role of
racism in American society through
stories blending imagination and
real-life experiences mr. Bell writes
about it